so hello everyone I'm Molly I'm a
product manager on the ipfs team just a
bit about my background I've worked in
education technology and in general and
making knowledge more accessible so I'm
super excited to talk to you all today
about what we're thinking about offline
first use cases and how we want i PF s
to kind of come and address some of
these problems so we all use the
internet for many things we rely on
every single day you even get wonderful
little internet static here we use it to
talk to our friends we learn new things
we do our work tons of different things
every day but the internet isn't
actually the same everywhere and in some
places it really sucks in these zones
centralized applications get super slow
and lossy and they literally cease to
function I know we've all had that
immensely frustrating experience of
being right across the table from a
friend and trying to share a photo or a
video or just a website that you think
that they should see and having to
resort to email or text or your favorite
cloud storage device to transfer that
content from one device to the device
literally right next to it the internet
should not be so brittle and obtuse it's
absurd to illustrate this point let's
start with three examples a school a
remote village and a crowd this is a
photo of chip biri biri church of uganda
primary school in this photo they're
using solar-powered computers to edit
documents and presentations to share
with their classmates frequently in
classrooms the content that students
want to load is mostly duplicate the
individual edits that they're making is
almost exclusively locally relevant it
only needs to sink back to the rest of
the network asynchronously there's no
reason to send all of the edits that
individuals are making to the outside
Network before showing it locally to the
peers right next door in many schools
and enterprise settings in both emerging
and more developed markets the
connection to the backbone is pretty
constrained and frequently intermittent
this causes slowdowns stalled lessons
interrupted meetings when all of that
internet access is being routed to
external centralized services here's a
set of those many rich wonderful
applications that they might be trying
to use in this classroom and yet would
all require them to sync all of their
edits far off to centralized databases
this is a photo of rural Assam it's in
northeast India and these women are
using mobile phones to share design
patterns for traditional clothing using
the internet and peer-to-peer sharing
devices in many of these remote
communities access to the Internet is
expensive sporadic and once they're
sharing content with each other they
need tools that work regardless of their
connectivity there's a number of
applications for offline peer-to-peer
sharing things like share it we transfer
Samsung my files but these solutions
don't support more dynamic web
applications or more flexible content
sharing patterns like point-to-point
instead of just peer-to-peer this
picture is of the Hong Kong independence
protests in 2014 where protesters used
fire chat to communicate and coordinate
in these large local communities for
communicating communicating in these
extremely dense networks existing
infrastructure really struggles to scale
to the local demand shutting down
communication channels and slowing the
network speeds for everyone especially
for things like chat and gaming and so
local social networks where the content
is really more relevant to the people
around you tools like mesh networks can
help connect peers and empower them to
communicate directly there's other tools
that are being developed for this but
we'd love it to be more dynamic to be
able to utilize these new types of
networks more efficiently music samples
may sound pretty extreme but they aren't
edge cases or one-off scenarios they're
how an increasing fraction of the world
experiences the Internet in the next
five years over 1 billion users in Latin
America Africa and Asia will be coming
online with conditions similar
to these it's not abnormal and for these
users data is still really expensive
it's slow and their connections are very
sporadic which blocks them from taking
full advantage of the world's knowledge
and the tools on the internet that all
of us know and rely on so how are we
addressing these challenges and the you
know static what are we going to do to
improve our tools and the fabric they're
built on one of the things that's been
coming together is a thought movement
called offline first it's a collection
of interested and motivated people
trying to push forward solutions to this
problem together they do a number of
things to help bring together this
community they have a yearly Mia called
offline camp they have a slack community
meetups ambassadors other events that
anyone can host as part of that
community they're also doing things like
user experience research and developing
patterns that work well for the offline
first environment where you know you
need to think about has data synced to
all of the people I'm trying to
communicate to things that might not be
design patterns that you'd think about
in our centralized app world there's
also a lot of amazing tools throughout
the open-source community that are
trying to bridge these problems in use
cases there are some we know and love
that include endless OS which is trying
to bring offline first operating systems
with pre cached apps and locally
relevant content there's learning
equality that builds tools like Calibri
and Khan Academy Lite and these are
learning tools trying to address that
offline education scenario that we
talked about earlier trying to help make
students and teachers be able to
communicate more effectively and use all
these rich learning tools to level up
there's many other amazing open-source
projects if you know of them come and
talk to us we really really want to hear
about more of them and work together so
of course I would be remiss if I spent
all this time talking about offline
first and I didn't talk about IP FS
which is a project to decentralize the
Internet and make the world's knowledge
stored there more resilient perm
and accessible to everyone huzzah
offline super core to our mission here
at ipfs one of the fundamental pieces of
this project is that we make this work
for everyone not just the people with
perfect connections in this centralized
model and we're ramping that up a lot
more now that we've done a lot of the
kind of fundamental underlying infra
that will make this feasible so ipfs is
really a level below the sort of
applications we've been talking about
it's trying to create a better fabric
for the internet so we don't have to
create specialized applications for
offline in particular everything should
just work if you're in a partition or in
a low bandwidth bandwidth network that
sounds crazy but we should be building a
network that that deals with that and
makes that a reality but how could I PFS
even do that well you have projects like
ipfs and IP LD that are using content
addressing as devii just described to
enable these distributed applications
that can be served reliably and securely
from any source content addressing means
that links can reference the closest
possible version of a file that
someone's looking for which empowers
individuals on the edges of the network
to retrieve local content directly from
whoever they're close to without making
duplicate requests for the same file
over and over or having to sync all of
their edits to some centralized network
and service before it gets to the person
right next to them we also work on a
project called Lib p2p which enables
peer discovery local content routing and
data transports this is helping bridge
the connection between individuals in
these distributed networks so how about
might ipfs IP LDN live p2p help with
some of these well by creating a more
flexible and resilient fabric for the
internet for things like the school or
enterprise use case it could help by
duping some of these requests syncing
the edits more locally and maybe even
working with pre-caching some of that
content that's you know in high demand
so that you don't have to do
these long transfers over centralized
tubes and infrastructure for things like
peer-to-peer file-sharing this can work
with actually enabling you to get files
from the peers around you first off but
also for more flexible things like
point-to-point content where you're
routing through a set of other peers in
order to get at the content that exists
to someone you aren't connected to but
through a chain of others you might be
you can also do things like
opportunistic content distribution this
is something that be super cool where
you could imagine walking around a big
city just like London and you go from
one place where you are connected to
another place without as good connection
and you're able to then distribute the
content that you've cashed to that
community and kind of hop bridge and hop
these networks in order to share your
data you could even incentivize that
with something like data couriers being
able to kind of get a kickback for that
service you're providing of bringing
data to other areas that have you know
lower bandwidth or aren't as able to get
access to it for something like the
local social use cases it's really all
about communication tools and especially
things that avoid the backbone in order
to connect people and bring them
together there's things like social
networks that can be cached or seeded
locally there's resilient connections so
making sure that it's fault tolerant
even if there's a natural disaster or a
breakage or an attack of some sort he's
still able to as a group continue
offering the service and having it be
resilient to that and then especially
for things like gaming locally it's
really important to have very fast
connections with each other and it's
silly to route all that content to
somewhere far away if you want it to be
fast
there's also of course the challenges
we're not quite there yet there's a lot
of work that we still have to do before
we can meet all these demands that's
things like improving our performance
and our efficiency adding better tooling
so that we can do things like local peer
discovery and content routing and of
course mobile transports for a limb p2p
but even more importantly it's actually
the people who are building on top of IP
FS that really need to think about
these offline first use cases and make
things that are extremely intuitive and
user-friendly so that everyone can take
advantage of them for these types of
scenarios
ipfs is building us a fabric that can
support that but we need the entire
community to build the entire stack so
that everyone can take advantage so
what's next what am I talking to you now
well we're starting a working group
inside of ipfs for more people to get
involved and to actually think about
these issues first thing on our agenda
is doing more research and really need
finding understanding these offline
first pain points and also connecting
with others so if you are interested
please get in touch with me there's
actually a piece of paper over on that
other side it's wonderful static cling
come talk to me during the break
throw out your ideas about how we're
gonna make I P FS better for these sorts
of scenarios how we're gonna I don't
know solve other challenges that you
throw at us just come share your ideas
we're really looking forward to to
working together on this so what else
can you do to get involved other than
that well you can learn more join the
conversation there's a ton of people who
already talking about this get involved
get connected you can also do things
like build on top of IP FS for things
like offline use cases or you can help
us kind of adapt existing open source
projects to meet these sorts of needs in
like this offline peer to peer world of
magic we're just getting started but
we're really excited to have all of you
on board so anyone who's interested come
meet me over in the corner I have
chocolate I will feed you chocolate I
know it's worth it thank you
[Applause]